The President: Hi, everybody.
Our businesses have now
added nearly 10 million
new jobs over the
past 52 months.
The unemployment rate is
at its lowest point since
September 2008 -- the
fastest one-year drop
in nearly 30 years.
401(k)s are growing, fewer
homes are underwater,
and for the first time in more
than a decade, business
leaders around the world
have declared that
the world's number one place
to invest isn't China;
it's the United States of
America --
and our lead is growing.
None of this
is an accident.
It's thanks to the
resilience and resolve
of the American people that
our country
has recovered faster and come
farther than almost
any other advanced nation on Earth.
But there's another
trend that threatens
to undermine the progress
you've helped make.
Even as corporate profits
are as high as ever,
a small but growing group
of big corporations
are fleeing the country to
get out of paying taxes.
They're keeping most of
their business inside
the United States, but they're
basically renouncing
their citizenship and declaring
that they're
based somewhere else, just to
avoid
paying their fair share.
I want to be clear:
this is only
a few big corporations so far.
The vast majority of
American businesses pay
their taxes right here
in the United States.
But when some companies
cherrypick their taxes,
it damages the
country's finances.
It adds to the deficit.
It makes it harder to
invest in the things that
will keep America strong,
and it sticks
you with the tab for what they
stash offshore.
Right now, a loophole in
our tax laws makes this
totally legal -- and I
think
that's totally wrong.
You don't get to pick
which rules you play
by, or which tax rate you pay,
and neither
should these companies.
The best way to level the
playing field is through
tax reform that lowers the
corporate tax rate,
closes wasteful loopholes, and
simplifies
the tax code for everybody.
But stopping companies
from renouncing
their citizenship just to get
out of paying
their fair share of taxes is
something
that cannot wait.
That's why, in my budget
earlier this year,
I proposed closing this
unpatriotic
tax loophole for good.
Democrats in Congress have
advanced proposals
that would do the same thing.
A couple Republicans have
indicated they want
to address this too, and
I hope more join us.
Rather than double-down
on the top-down
economics that let a fortunate
few play by their
own rules, let's embrace an
economic patriotism
that says we rise or fall
together, as one nation,
and as one people.
Let's reward the hard work
of ordinary Americans
who play by the rules.
Together, we can build up
our middle class,
hand down something better to
our kids,
and restore the American Dream for all
who work for it and study for it and strive for it.
Thanks, and have
a great weekend.